---
title: Testing of Faith - James 1 (V2-12)
date: 2024-10-02
summary: >
  "Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance and let endurance have its perfect result, so that you may be perfect and completely lacking in nothing.” James 1:2-3
hero: https://github.com/maxxgl/sig-blog/blob/master/static/_%20(1).jpeg?raw=true
---

## The perseverance of suffering 

Have you ever looked at someone and knew right away their heart was for the Lord? I mean they are completely sold out for God. Nothing is going to shake their faith. Maybe who comes to mind right away is that 70-year-old lady in your church who always has candies in her pocket for the kids and gives you the brightest smile and hug when you see her. She is filled with endless joy in her heart and never has a negative thing to say. How does she do it? How does she have that much faith and love to share? James talks about how we are to “Consider it all joy, my brethren when you encounter various trials knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance and let endurance have its perfect result, so that you may be perfect and complete lacking in nothing.” James 1:2-4

What is a trial? Something that breaks the pattern of peace, comfort, joy, and happiness in someone's life. In the verb form of trial, it means to put someone or something to the test to discover that person's nature or that thing's quality. This must mean that every trial becomes a test of faith not only designed to strengthen your faith but also to draw you nearer to God himself. Through trials, Christians have the opportunity to withstand the pressure they face until God removes it at His appointed time and we can even cherish the benefits.

So those that we know who seem to be so strong in their faith, that 70-year-old lady who seems never to waver or doubt, how? Because they have lived through those trials and were counted blessed. “Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial; for once he has been approved he will receive the crown of life which the lord has promised to those who love him.” James 1:12 God intends these trials with the intention that we will draw closer to him. So those that you see that are so strong in their faith, those that are joyful even in the hard times, they have learned these truths of leaning on God. Asking in faith with no doubting. They have built endurance and perfected their faith, Perfect does not reference sinlessness but spiritual maturity. Testing of faith drives a Christian to deeper communion with Jesus. Those who portray godly characteristics have gone through trials and withstood them learning to count them with joy. As we are being sanctified we can lean on God more and more to bring us through every trial we face. How blessed that we have such a great God to intend these trials with purpose. There is nothing new under the sun so we are there to encourage and build each other up in the body of Christ as we face these trials together. 

Dear Lord, you are never changing, you have made all things good, and in you, there are only good things. Thank you for giving us purpose in the hardships of our life and allowing it to be a time to draw nearer to you. God would you give us the strength and endurance to count it all joy when we face life’s trials that can cause us to take our peace, comfort, and happiness. Would you lead us to deeper dependence and deeper communion with you. You are the one who sustains us. We love you. In Jesus Name, Amen 
